Deploy production ordering service doc (#2080)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/deployorderer/ordererchecklist.md

ListenPort:
# ListenAddress defines the IP on which to listen to intra-cluster communication.
ListenAddress:
# ServerCertificate defines the file location of the server TLS certificate used for intra-cluster
# communication.
ServerCertificate:
# ServerPrivateKey defines the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
ServerPrivateKey:
```

When TLS is enabled you must configure the `General.Cluster.ClientCertificate:` and the `General.Cluster.ClientPrivateKey:` to be the server-side signed certificate for the node, the same as the value in `General.TLS.Certificate`.

**`ClientCertificate`**:  Provide the path to and filename of the public certificate (also known as a signed certificate) generated by your TLS CA for this node.
**`ClientPrivateKey`**: Provide the path to and filename of the private key generated by your TLS CA for this node.

In general, these four parameters would only need to be configured if you want to configure multiple listeners for your orderers. In most circumstances a single listener is sufficient.

**`ListenPort`**
**`ListenAddress`**
**`ServerCertificate`**
**`ServerPrivateKey`**

> Bote: the `ServerCertificate` and `ServerPrivateKey` must be set to the same values as the `General.TLS.PrivateKey` and `General.TLS.Certificate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: the `ServerCertificate` and `ServerPrivateKey` must be set to the same values as the `General.TLS.PrivateKey` and `General.TLS.Certificate`.
```

## General.BoostrapMethod

```
# Bootstrap method: The method by which to obtain the bootstrap block

> # system channel is specified. The option can be one of:

Reviewer: Not sure I'd call it "obtain[ing] the bootstrap block"... Maybe "The method by which to bootstrap (initialize?) the system channel configuration"? 

Also, seems like some editing happened along the way and the second line doesn't flow naturally from the first.

Author: That's a quote from the orderer.yaml.

`config/organizations/ordererOrganizations/org0.example.com/orderers/orderer0.org0.example.com/msp`

## General.LocalMSPID

```
# LocalMSPID is the identity to register the local MSP material with the MSP
# manager. IMPORTANT: The local MSP ID of an orderer needs to match the MSP
# ID of one of the organizations defined in the orderer system channel's
# /Channel/Orderer configuration. The sample organization defined in the
# sample configuration provided has an MSP ID of "SampleOrg".
LocalMSPID: SampleOrg
```

> **`LocalMSPID`**: (default value should be overridden) The MSP ID must match the orderer organization MSP ID that exists in the configuration of the system channel. This means the MSP ID must have been listen in the `configtx.yaml` used to create the genesis block of the system channel (or have been added later to the list of system channel administrators).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`LocalMSPID`**: (default value should be overridden) The MSP ID must match the orderer organization MSP ID that exists in the configuration of the system channel. This means the MSP ID must have been listed in the `configtx.yaml` used to create the genesis block of the system channel (or have been added later to the list of system channel administrators).
```

        #  - SW: a software based crypto provider
        #  - PKCS11: a CA hardware security module crypto provider.
        Default: SW

        # SW configures the software based blockchain crypto provider.
        SW:
            # TODO: The default Hash and Security level needs refactoring to be
            # fully configurable. Changing these defaults requires coordination
            # SHA2 is hardcoded in several places, not only BCCSP
            Hash: SHA2
            Security: 256
            # Location of key store. If this is unset, a location will be
            # chosen using: 'LocalMSPDir'/keystore
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

(Optional) This section is used to configure the Blockchain crypto provider.

- **`BCCSP.Default:`** If you plan to use a Hardware Security Module (HSM), then this must be set to `PKCS11`.
- **`BCCSP.PKCS11.*:`** Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.

## FileLedger.Location

```
# Location: The directory to store the blocks in.
Location: /var/hyperledger/production/orderer
```

> **`Location`**: (default value should be overridden, especially if more than node will be created by this organization) Every channel on which the node is a consenter will have its own subdirectory at this location. The user running the orderer needs to own and have write access to this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Location`**: (default value should be overridden, especially if more than one(?) node will be created by this organization) Every channel on which the node is a consenter will have its own subdirectory at this location. The user running the orderer needs to own and have write access to this directory.
```

## Operations.*

The operations service is used for monitoring the health of the ordering node and relies on mutual TLS to secure its communication. Therefore, you need to set `operations.tls.clientAuthRequired` to `true`. When this parameter is set to `true`, clients attempting to ascertain the health of the node are required to provide a valid certificate for authentication. If the client does not provide a certificate or the service cannot verify the client’s certificate, the request is rejected. This means that the clients will need to register with the ordering node's TLS CA and provide their TLS signing certificate on the requests. See [The Operations Service](../operations_service.html) to learn more.

If you plan to use Prometheus [metrics](#metrics) to monitor your ordering node, you must configure the operations service here.

> In the unlikely case where two ordering nodes are running on the same node on your infrastructure, you need to modify the addresses for the second peer to use a different port. Otherwise, when you start the second peer, it will fail to start, reporting that the addresses are already in use.

Reviewer: I assume you meant orderer?
```suggestion
In the unlikely case where two ordering nodes are running on the same node on your infrastructure, you need to modify the addresses for the second orderer(?) to use a different port. Otherwise, when you start the second orderer(?), it will fail to start, reporting that the addresses are already in use.
```

        # at the TLS layer to access all resources.
        ClientAuthRequired: false

        # Paths to PEM encoded ca certificates to trust for client authentication
        ClientRootCAs: []
```

**`ListenAddress`**: (required when using the operations service) Specify the address and port of the operations server.
**`Enabled`**: (required when using the operations service) Must be `true` if the operations service is being used.
**`Certificate`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `orderer.tls.cert.file`.
**`PrivateKey`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `orderer.tls.key.file`.
**`ClientAuthRequired`**: (required when using the operations service) Must be set to `true` to enable mutual TLS between the client and the server.
**`ClientRootCAs`**: (required when using the operations service) Similar to the client root CA cert file in TLS, it contains a list of client root CA certificates that can be used to verify client certificates. If the client enrolled with the peer organization CA, then this value is the orderer organization root CA cert.

## Metrics.Provider.*

> By default this is disabled, but if you want to monitor the metrics for the orderer, you need to choose either `statsd` or `Prometheus` as your metric provider. `Statsd` uses a "push" model, pushing metrics from the orering node to a `statsd` endpoint. Because of this, it does not require configuration of the operations service itself. See the list of [Available metrics for the orderer](../metrics_reference.html#orderer-metrics).

Reviewer: Nit: different cases for `statsd` throughout this line (and the section below) and `Prometheus` is capitalized. Any reason for the inconsistency?

Author: The inconsistency here is just an error, but in general we try to adhere to the common rules for capitalization used by the company developing a product or what is just sort of used by the internet in general. That's why we capitalize "Certificate Authority" and not "peer". 

The common usage I can find is "StatsD", so I'm going to change all of these to that (aside from the quotes from orderer.yaml, which unfortunately use the lowercase form).

# Checklist for a production ordering node

> As you prepare to build a production ordering service (or a single ordering node, you need to customize the configuration by editing the [orderer.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/{BRANCH}/sampleconfig/orderer.yaml) file, which is copied into the `/config` directory when downloading the Fabric binaries, and available within the Fabric ordering node image at `/etc/hyperledger/fabric/orderer.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you prepare to build a production ordering service (or a single ordering node), you need to customize the configuration by editing the [orderer.yaml](https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/{BRANCH}/sampleconfig/orderer.yaml) file, which is copied into the `/config` directory when downloading the Fabric binaries, and available within the Fabric ordering node image at `/etc/hyperledger/fabric/orderer.yaml`.
```

This checklist covers key configuration parameters for setting up a production ordering service. Of course, you can always refer to the orderer.yaml file for additional parameters or more information. It also provides guidance on which parameters should be overridden. The list of parameters that you need to understand and that are described in this topic include:

* [General.ListenAddress](#general-listenaddress)
* [General.ListenPort](#general-listenport)
* [General.TLS.*](#general-tls)
* [General.Keepalive.*](#general-keepalive)
* [General.Cluster.*](#general-cluster)
* [General.BoostrapMethod](#general-bootstrapmethod)
* [General.BoostrapFile](#general-bootstrapfile)
* [General.LocalMSPDir](#general-localmspdir)
* [General.LocalMSPID](#general-localmspid)
* [FileLedger.Location](#fileledger-location)
* [Operations.*](#operations)
* [Metrics.Provider](#metrics-provider)
* [Metrics.Statsd.*](#metrics-statsd)
* [Consensus.*](#consensus)

## General.ListenAddress

```
# Listen address: The IP on which to bind to listen.
ListenAddress: 127.0.0.1
```

> **`ListenAddress`**: (default value should be overridden) This is the location where the orderer will listen, for example, `0.0.0.0:9051`.

Reviewer 2: Unlike the peer, the orderer.yaml separates the address and the port.

```suggestion
**`ListenAddress`**: (default value should be overridden) This is the location where the orderer will listen, for example, `0.0.0.0`.
```

## General.ListenPort

```
# Listen port: The port on which to bind to listen.
ListenPort: 7050
```

* **`ListenPort`**: (default value should be overridden) This is the port that the orderer listens on.

## General.TLS

```
Enabled: false
# PrivateKey governs the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
PrivateKey: tls/server.key
# Certificate governs the file location of the server TLS certificate.
Certificate: tls/server.crt
RootCAs:
  - tls/ca.crt
ClientAuthRequired: false
ClientRootCAs:
```

* **`Enabled`**: (default value should be overridden) In a production network, you should be using TLS-secured communications. This value should be `true`.

> * **`PrivateKey`**: (default value should be overridden). Provide the path to and file name of the private key generated by your TLS CA for this node.

Reviewer 2: "Provide the path to and file name" doesn't sound correct.  This is repeated multiple times below.

Author: I think it's just missing commas: "Provide the path to, and filename of,"

* **`Certificate`**: (default value should be overridden) Provide the path to and filename of the public certificate (also known as the sign certificate) generated by your TLS CA for this node.

> * **`RootCAs`**: (should be commented out) This parameter needs to be unset for normal use. It can be used to augment the orderer TLS certificate in the channel configuration orderer `MSPDir/tlscacerts` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`RootCAs`**: (should be commented out) This parameter needs to be unset for normal use. It can be used to augment the set of tlscacerts available from the MSPs of each channel's configuration.
```

Author: As I recall, the language that was here was suggested by Jason in the google doc this doc was created from. Also I'm not really sure how this one field in orderer.yaml can augment a set of TLS certs from multiple MSPs?

Reviewer 2: Let's take test network as an example. There are three orgs in the channel config (orderer org, org1, org2). Each of these orgs has a tls ca cert in their msp/tlscacerts directory that gets encoded into the channel config. This set of three tls ca certs are used to verify connections.  Now, at a later time, suppose one of those certs gets expired and the associated org is not able to immediately update their tls ca cert in the channel config. That org could provide a new tls ca cert, and it could be included in orderer.yaml for this orderer to augment the list of three from the channel config. So now it has a list of four (3 from channel config, one from orderer.yaml). This is consistent with what Jason said in the google doc - his main point was that any cert here would augment instead of override the list from the channel config.

This is a rare scenario, which is why we say it should be commented out, even in the sample orderer.yaml.

(Furthermore, I don't think this list is even used anymore, but that's a different story).

Reviewer 3: +1 I think I may have used a '/' notation meaning "or", I did not mean an explicit path.  Dave's wording is correct.

Author: Ok, great. Thank you both for clarifying this.

* **`ClientAuthRequired`**: (Mutual TLS only) Setting this value to “true” will enable mutual TLS on your network, and must be done for the entire network, not just one node.

> * **`ClientRootCAs`**: (Mutual TLS only)  Can be left blank if mutual TLS is disabled. If mutual TLS is enabled, this is the path to the root certificate of the TLS CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`ClientRootCAs`**: (Mutual TLS only)  Can be left blank if mutual TLS is disabled. If mutual TLS is enabled, this is a list of the paths to the root certificate of the TLS CA for each client organization that will need to connect to the orderer.
```

Reviewer 2: Jason made the same point about this one in the google doc actually, which I missed during my initial review... the set of org tls ca certs from the channel config will be used to verify client connections. You can add additional tls ca certs in ClientRootCAs to augment that list. Again, it would be rare.

```
# ServerMinInterval is the minimum permitted time between client pings.
# If clients send pings more frequently, the server will
# disconnect them.
ServerMinInterval: 60s
# ServerInterval is the time between pings to clients.
ServerInterval: 7200s
# ServerTimeout is the duration the server waits for a response from
# a client before closing the connection.
ServerTimeout: 20s
```

**`ServerMinInterval`**: (default value should not be overridden, unless determined necessary through testing)
**`ServerInterval`**: (default value should not be overridden, unless determined necessary through testing)
**`ServerTimeout`**: (default value should not be overridden, unless determined necessary through testing)

## General.Cluster

```
# SendBufferSize is the maximum number of messages in the egress buffer.
# Consensus messages are dropped if the buffer is full, and transaction
# messages are waiting for space to be freed.
SendBufferSize: 10
# ClientCertificate governs the file location of the client TLS certificate

> # used to establish mutual TLS connections with other ordering service nodes.

Reviewer 2: This comment is being added in PR #2123 :
`# If not set, the server General.TLS.Certificate is re-used.`

ClientCertificate:

> # ClientPrivateKey governs the file location of the private key of the client TLS certificate.

Reviewer 2: This comment is being added in PR #2123 :
`# If not set, the server General.TLS.PrivateKey is re-used.`

ClientPrivateKey:
# The below 4 properties should be either set together, or be unset together.
# If they are set, then the orderer node uses a separate listener for intra-cluster
# communication. If they are unset, then the general orderer listener is used.
# This is useful if you want to use a different TLS server certificates on the
# client-facing and the intra-cluster listeners.

# ListenPort defines the port on which the cluster listens to connections.
ListenPort:
# ListenAddress defines the IP on which to listen to intra-cluster communication.
ListenAddress:
# ServerCertificate defines the file location of the server TLS certificate used for intra-cluster
# communication.
ServerCertificate:
# ServerPrivateKey defines the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
ServerPrivateKey:
```

> When TLS is enabled you must configure the `General.Cluster.ClientCertificate:` and the `General.Cluster.ClientPrivateKey:` to be the server-side signed certificate for the node, the same as the value in `General.TLS.Certificate`.

Reviewer 2: No, it doesn't have to be the same as General.TLS.Certificate.
It can be a different Certificate and PrivateKey pair. However, to keep the config simple, it is suggested to keep them the same.
As of v2.3.0, if unset, the ClientCertificate and ClientPrivateKey default to the server General.TLS.Certificate and General.TLS.PrivateKey.

**`ClientCertificate`**:  Provide the path to and filename of the public certificate (also known as a signed certificate) generated by your TLS CA for this node.

> **`ClientPrivateKey`**: Provide the path to and filename of the private key generated by your TLS CA for this node.

Reviewer 2: This entry and others in this file are not on separate lines in the generated doc.

In general, these four parameters would only need to be configured if you want to configure multiple listeners for your orderers. In most circumstances a single listener is sufficient.

**`ListenPort`**
**`ListenAddress`**
**`ServerCertificate`**
**`ServerPrivateKey`**

> 

Reviewer 4: Unless https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/pull/2078 gets ported back to release-2.2 we need to doc that  ServerCertificate and ServerPrivateKey must be set (to the same values as the General.TLS.PrivateKey and General.TLS.Certificate.

Reviewer: We'll make sure we backport it, just need to prioritize wrapping things up for release-2.3 at the moment.

> In general, these four parameters would only need to be configured if you want to configure multiple listeners for your orderers. In most circumstances a single listener is sufficient. Either set these four parameters together or leave them unset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, these four parameters would only need to be configured if you want to configure a separate listener and TLS certificates for intra-cluster communication (with other Raft orderers), as opposed to using the listener that peer clients and application clients utilize.  This is an advanced deployment option. Either set these four parameters together or leave them unset.
```

> Note: the `ServerCertificate` and `ServerPrivateKey` must be set to the same values as the `General.TLS.PrivateKey` and `General.TLS.Certificate`.

Reviewer 2: Remove - this is not true, if you want a separate intra-cluster listener, it is often because you want to use different TLS certs.

## General.BoostrapMethod

```
# Bootstrap method: The method by which to obtain the bootstrap block
# system channel is specified. The option can be one of:
#   "file" - path to a file containing the genesis block or config block of system channel
#   "none" - allows an orderer to start without a system channel configuration
BootstrapMethod: file
```

> * **`BootstrapMethod`**: (default value should not be overridden) Unless you plan to use a file type other than “file”, this value should be left as is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`BootstrapMethod`**: (default value should not be overridden) Keep "file" unless you plan to bootstrap ordering nodes without a system channel (v2.3 and later option).
```

Author: This first cut at the deployment guide describes the system channel process, so let's leave this as is and add the note about the participation API for later. This edit would only confuse people as it would be the only reference to the new channel creation process in the whole guide.

Reviewer 2: ok

## General.BoostrapFile

```
# Bootstrap file: The file containing the bootstrap block to use when
# initializing the orderer system channel and BootstrapMethod is set to
# "file".  The bootstrap file can be the genesis block, and it can also be
# a config block for late bootstrap of some consensus methods like Raft.
# Generate a genesis block by updating $FABRIC_CFG_PATH/configtx.yaml and
# using configtxgen command with "-outputBlock" option.
# Defaults to file "genesisblock" (in $FABRIC_CFG_PATH directory) if not specified.
BootstrapFile:
```

> * **`BoostrapFile`**: (default value should be overridden) Specify the location and name of the ordering service genesis block to use when this node is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`BoostrapFile`**: (default value should be overridden) Specify the location and name of the system channel genesis block to use when this node is created.
```

```
# LocalMSPDir is where to find the private crypto material needed by the
# orderer. It is set relative here as a default for dev environments but
# should be changed to the real location in production.
LocalMSPDir: msp
```

**`LocalMSPDir`**: (default value should not be overridden) If you change this from `msp`, your folder structure must reflect the folder name you have specified here. The pathname is relative to the `FABRIC_CFG_PATH` or you can specify an absolute path.

> 

Reviewer 4: I think this should be  (Default value should be overridden.) That's what we say in the peer deployment guide and since we are recommending that they setup their own folder structure to manage their MSPs and certs.

> **`LocalMSPDir`**: (default value should not be overridden) This is the path to the ordering node's local MSP, which must be created before it can be deployed. The path can be absolute or relative to `FABRIC_CFG_PATH` (by default, it is `/etc/hyperledger/fabric` in the orderer image). Unless an absolute path is specified to a folder named something other than "msp", the ordering node defaults to looking for a folder called “msp” at the path (in other words, `FABRIC_CFG_PATH/msp`) and when using the orderer image: `/etc/hyperledger/fabric/msp`. If you are using the recommended folder structure described in the [Registering and enrolling identities with a CA](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.4/deployguide/use_CA.html) topic, it would be relative to the `FABRIC_CFG_PATH` as follows:

Reviewer 2: This will often be overridden.
This paragraph seems to have 2x the number of words as needed :-)

Author: Given that cert stuff like this is the thing people seem to most often screw up, I don't mind oversharing.

```
# LocalMSPID is the identity to register the local MSP material with the MSP
# manager. IMPORTANT: The local MSP ID of an orderer needs to match the MSP
# ID of one of the organizations defined in the orderer system channel's
# /Channel/Orderer configuration. The sample organization defined in the
# sample configuration provided has an MSP ID of "SampleOrg".
LocalMSPID: SampleOrg
```

**`LocalMSPID`**: (default value should be overridden) The MSP ID must match the orderer organization MSP ID that exists in the configuration of the system channel. This means the MSP ID must have been listen in the `configtx.yaml` used to create the genesis block of the system channel (or have been added later to the list of system channel administrators).

## General.BCCSP.*

BCCSP.SW can’t be configured at the moment. Leave those parameters as they are.

> Should this section be similar to the same content in the  CA and Peer sections?

Reviewer 4: Maybe you meant to leave this question in here for feedback?. I would change this section to match the peer recommendations:
```(Optional) This section is used to configure the Blockchain crypto provider.

    BCCSP.Default: If you plan to use a Hardware Security Module (HSM), then this must be set to PKCS11.
    BCCSP.PKCS11.*: Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.
```

Author: I did put that at the end and intended to delete this line.

> **`PKCS11`**:

Reviewer 4: PKCS11 resides inside the BCCSP section no alongside it. I think we can make these recommendations match the peer recommendations for these parameters instead?

        #  - SW: a software based crypto provider
        #  - PKCS11: a CA hardware security module crypto provider.
        Default: SW

        # SW configures the software based blockchain crypto provider.
        SW:
            # TODO: The default Hash and Security level needs refactoring to be
            # fully configurable. Changing these defaults requires coordination
            # SHA2 is hardcoded in several places, not only BCCSP
            Hash: SHA2
            Security: 256
            # Location of key store. If this is unset, a location will be
            # chosen using: 'LocalMSPDir'/keystore
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

(Optional) This section is used to configure the Blockchain crypto provider.

- **`BCCSP.Default:`** If you plan to use a Hardware Security Module (HSM), then this must be set to `PKCS11`.
- **`BCCSP.PKCS11.*:`** Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.

## FileLedger.Location

```
# Location: The directory to store the blocks in.
Location: /var/hyperledger/production/orderer
```

> **`Location`**: (default value should be overridden, especially if more than node will be created by this organization) Every channel on which the node is a consenter will have its own subdirectory at this location.

Reviewer 4: The user running the orderer needs to own and have write access to this directory.

> * **`BCCSP.PKCS11.*:`** Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.

Reviewer 2: The PKCS11 section should be listed in the sample config above.

```
# host and port for the operations server
    ListenAddress: 127.0.0.1:8443

    # TLS configuration for the operations endpoint
    TLS:
        # TLS enabled
        Enabled: false

        # Certificate is the location of the PEM encoded TLS certificate
        Certificate:

        # PrivateKey points to the location of the PEM-encoded key
        PrivateKey:

        # Most operations service endpoints require client authentication when TLS
        # is enabled. ClientAuthRequired requires client certificate authentication
        # at the TLS layer to access all resources.
        ClientAuthRequired: false

        # Paths to PEM encoded ca certificates to trust for client authentication
        ClientRootCAs: []
```

* **`ListenAddress`**: (required when using the operations service) Specify the address and port of the operations server.
* **`Enabled`**: (required when using the operations service) Must be `true` if the operations service is being used.

> * **`Certificate`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `orderer.tls.cert.file`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`Certificate`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `General.TLS.Certificate`.
```

> * **`PrivateKey`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `orderer.tls.key.file`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`PrivateKey`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `General.TLS.PrivateKey`.
```

## Metrics.Provider.*

By default this is disabled, but if you want to monitor the metrics for the orderer, you need to choose either `StatsD` or `Prometheus` as your metric provider. `StatsD` uses a "push" model, pushing metrics from the orering node to a `StatsD` endpoint. Because of this, it does not require configuration of the operations service itself. See the list of [Available metrics for the orderer](../metrics_reference.html#orderer-metrics).

Because Prometheus utilizes a "pull" model there is not any configuration required, beyond making the operations service available. Rather, Prometheus will send requests to the operations URL to poll for available metrics.

```
    # The metrics provider is one of statsd, prometheus, or disabled
    Provider: disabled

    # The statsd configuration
    Statsd:
      # network type: tcp or udp
      Network: udp

      # the statsd server address
      Address: 127.0.0.1:8125

      # The interval at which locally cached counters and gauges are pushed
      # to statsd; timings are pushed immediately
      WriteInterval: 30s

      # The prefix is prepended to all emitted statsd metrics
      Prefix:
```

> * **`Statsd.Provider`**: Must be `enabled` to use `StatsD` or `Prometheus` metrics for the ordering node.

Reviewer 2: I know that lowercase values work. Not sure about the mixed case values unless somebody has mentioned this.

Author: I used "StatsD" to refer to StatsD generally (as this is the proper capitalization from what I could find online, but used the capitalization from the YAML when explicitly referring to the YAML.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't matter what case is used online or in the YAML keys. The valid values for Metrics.Provider are:
"disabled"
"statsd"
"prometheus"

> * **`Statsd.Address`**: (required to use `StatsD` or `Prometheus` metrics for the ordering node) When `StatsD` is enabled, you will need to configure the `hostname` and `port` of the `StatsD` server so that the ordering node can push metric updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`Statsd.Address`**: (required to use `StatsD` metrics for the ordering node) When `StatsD` is enabled, you will need to configure the `hostname` and `port` of the `StatsD` server so that the ordering node can push metric updates.
```

# Consensus messages are dropped if the buffer is full, and transaction
# messages are waiting for space to be freed.
SendBufferSize: 10
# ClientCertificate governs the file location of the client TLS certificate
# If not set, the server General.TLS.Certificate is re-used.
ClientCertificate:
# If not set, the server General.TLS.PrivateKey is re-used.
ClientPrivateKey:
# The below 4 properties should be either set together, or be unset together.
# If they are set, then the orderer node uses a separate listener for intra-cluster
# communication. If they are unset, then the general orderer listener is used.
# This is useful if you want to use a different TLS server certificates on the
# client-facing and the intra-cluster listeners.

# ListenPort defines the port on which the cluster listens to connections.
ListenPort:
# ListenAddress defines the IP on which to listen to intra-cluster communication.
ListenAddress:
# ServerCertificate defines the file location of the server TLS certificate used for intra-cluster
# communication.
ServerCertificate:
# ServerPrivateKey defines the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
ServerPrivateKey:
```

> As of Fabric v2.3.0, if unset, the `ClientCertificate` and `ClientPrivateKey` default to the server `General.TLS.Certificate` and `General.TLS.PrivateKey`.

Reviewer 3: ... when the orderer is not configured to use a separate cluster port.

* **`ClientCertificate`**:  Provide the path to, and filename of, the public certificate (also known as a signed certificate) generated by your TLS CA for this node.
* **`ClientPrivateKey`**: Provide the path to, and filename of, the private key generated by your TLS CA for this node.

> In general, these four parameters would only need to be configured if you want to configure a separate listener and TLS certificates for intra-cluster communication (with other Raft orderers), as opposed to using the listener that peer clients and application clients utilize. This is an advanced deployment option. Either set these four parameters together or leave them unset.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we should be saying "all six parameters" here and above?  It's a little awkward because you may only set the first two, but if you set the last four, the first two must be set as well.

Author: Yes that is a bit awkward. I went with: "These four parameters should be set together or left unset, and if they are set, note that the `ClientCertificate` and `ClientPrivateKey` must be set as well." 

Perhaps not the best sentence in the history of the English language, but hopefully it makes the point.

            # SHA2 is hardcoded in several places, not only BCCSP
            Hash: SHA2
            Security: 256
            # Location of key store. If this is unset, a location will be
            # chosen using: 'LocalMSPDir'/keystore
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

(Optional) This section is used to configure the Blockchain crypto provider.

* **`BCCSP.Default:`** If you plan to use a Hardware Security Module (HSM), then this must be set to `PKCS11`.

```
# Settings for the PKCS#11 crypto provider (i.e. when DEFAULT: PKCS11)
        PKCS11:
            # Location of the PKCS11 module library
            Library:
            # Token Label
            Label:
            # User PIN
            Pin:
            Hash:
            Security:
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

* **`BCCSP.PKCS11.*:`** Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.

## FileLedger.Location

```
# Location: The directory to store the blocks in.
Location: /var/hyperledger/production/orderer
```

> * **`Location`**: (default value should be overridden, especially if more than one node will be created by this organization) Every channel on which the node is a consenter will have its own subdirectory at this location. The user running the orderer needs to own and have write access to this directory. **The best practice is to store this data in persistent storage**. This prevents the ledger from being lost if your orderer containers are destroyed for some reason.

Reviewer 3: I'm a little confused why having more than one node means this location should be overridden? I guess you could put the host name into the path in the container, but you could also just name your volume properly.

My guess is, you are referring to running two non-containerized binaries on the same host.  But it's odd here that we assume this, while below for the operations endpoint we talk about "in the unlikely event where two ordering nodes are running on the same node"

Author: Ok changed this to "(default value should be overridden in the unlikely event where two ordering nodes are running on the same node)"

        # at the TLS layer to access all resources.
        ClientAuthRequired: false

        # Paths to PEM encoded ca certificates to trust for client authentication
        ClientRootCAs: []
```

* **`ListenAddress`**: (required when using the operations service) Specify the address and port of the operations server.
* **`Enabled`**: (required when using the operations service) Must be `true` if the operations service is being used.
* **`Certificate`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `General.TLS.Certificate`.
* **`PrivateKey`**: (required when using the operations service) Can be the same file as the `General.TLS.PrivateKey`.
* **`ClientAuthRequired`**: (required when using the operations service) Must be set to `true` to enable mutual TLS between the client and the server.
* **`ClientRootCAs`**: (required when using the operations service) Similar to the client root CA cert file in TLS, it contains a list of client root CA certificates that can be used to verify client certificates. If the client enrolled with the orderer organization CA, then this value is the orderer organization root CA cert.

## Metrics.*

> By default this is disabled, but if you want to monitor the metrics for the orderer, you need to use `StatsD` as your metric provider. `StatsD` uses a "push" model, pushing metrics from the orering node to a `StatsD` endpoint. Because of this, it does not require configuration of the operations service itself. See the list of [Available metrics for the orderer](../metrics_reference.html#orderer-metrics).

Reviewer 3: These seems like it was copied maybe? But it's very misleading to me.

> if you want to monitor the metrics for the orderer, you need to use `StatsD` as your metric provider

You can monitor metrics using prometheus too?  I would think it should read: "if you want to monitor the metrics for the orderer, you must set this value to either `statsd` or `prometheus`.  Then have a paragraph about each.

Author: Seems sufficient to me to just link to the metrics reference doc, but if we want to add a paragraph of information here for each metrics type, I'm open to it. Not being an expert on metrics, I'm not really sure what we should say, though.

Because Prometheus utilizes a "pull" model there is not any configuration required, beyond making the operations service available. Rather, Prometheus will send requests to the operations URL to poll for available metrics.

```
    # The metrics provider is one of statsd, prometheus, or disabled
    Provider: disabled

    # The statsd configuration
    Statsd:
      # network type: tcp or udp
      Network: udp

      # the statsd server address
      Address: 127.0.0.1:8125

      # The interval at which locally cached counters and gauges are pushed
      # to statsd; timings are pushed immediately
      WriteInterval: 30s

      # The prefix is prepended to all emitted statsd metrics
      Prefix:
```

* **`Provider`**: Must be `enabled` to use `StatsD` or `Prometheus` metrics for the ordering node.
* **`Statsd.Address`**: (required to use `StatsD` metrics for the ordering node) When `StatsD` is enabled, you will need to configure the `hostname` and `port` of the `StatsD` server so that the ordering node can push metric updates.

## Consensus.*

> These values could vary depending on consensus plugin. For instance, a BFT plugin would very likely have a different set of options here.

Reviewer 3: I think this is my text verbatim, but I think perhaps it might make more sense to say something like:

"The values of this section vary by consensus plugin.  If you are using the recommended etcdraft consensus plugin, see the following documentation.  If you are using a different consensus plugin, refer to its documentation for allowed keys and recommended values.

```
# The allowed key-value pairs here depend on consensus plugin. For etcd/raft,
# we use following options:

# WALDir specifies the location at which Write Ahead Logs for etcd/raft are
# stored. Each channel will have its own subdir named after channel ID.
WALDir: /var/hyperledger/production/orderer/etcdraft/wal

# SnapDir specifies the location at which snapshots for etcd/raft are
# stored. Each channel will have its own subdir named after channel ID.
SnapDir: /var/hyperledger/production/orderer/etcdraft/snapshot
```

> * **`WALDir`**: (default value should be overridden.) This is the path to the write ahead logs on the local filesystem of the ordering node. It can be an absolute path or relative to `FABRIC_CFG_PATH`. It defaults to `/var/hyperledger/production/orderer/etcdraft/wal`. Each channel will have its own subdirectory named after the channel ID. The user running the ordering node needs to own and have write access to this directory.

Reviewer 3: it's a little odd that for WALDir and SnapDir, we don't mention that these needs to be on volumes, but we do for the ledger.  It's critical that these not be destroyed (and we have seen a lot of users make the mistake of not preserving them).

## General.ListenPort

```
# Listen port: The port on which to bind to listen.
ListenPort: 7050
```

* **`ListenPort`**: (default value should be overridden) This is the port that the orderer listens on.

## General.TLS

```
Enabled: false
# PrivateKey governs the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
PrivateKey: tls/server.key
# Certificate governs the file location of the server TLS certificate.
Certificate: tls/server.crt
RootCAs:
  - tls/ca.crt
ClientAuthRequired: false
ClientRootCAs:
```

* **`Enabled`**: (default value should be overridden) In a production network, you should be using TLS-secured communications. This value should be `true`.
* **`PrivateKey`**: (default value should be overridden). Provide the path to, and filename of, the private key generated by your TLS CA for this node.
* **`Certificate`**: (default value should be overridden) Provide the path to, and filename of, the public certificate (also known as the sign certificate) generated by your TLS CA for this node.

> * **`RootCAs`**: (should be commented out) This parameter needs to be unset for normal use. It can be used to augment the set of tlscacerts available from the MSPs of each channel's configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`RootCAs`**: (should be commented out) This parameter is typically unset for normal use. It is a list of the paths to additional root certificates used for verifying certificates of other orderer nodes during outbound connections. It can be used to augment the set of tlscacerts available from the MSPs of each channel's configuration.
```

* **`ClientAuthRequired`**: (Mutual TLS only) Setting this value to “true” will enable mutual TLS on your network, and must be done for the entire network, not just one node.

> * **`ClientRootCAs`**: (Mutual TLS only) Can be left blank if mutual TLS is disabled. If mutual TLS is enabled, this is a list of the paths to the root certificate of the TLS CA for each client organization that will need to connect to the orderer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **`ClientRootCAs`**: (Mutual TLS only) Can be left blank if mutual TLS is disabled. If mutual TLS is enabled, this is a list of the paths to additional root certificates used for verifying certificates of client connections. It can be used to augment the set of tlscacerts available from the MSPs of each channel’s configuration.
```

# Consensus messages are dropped if the buffer is full, and transaction
# messages are waiting for space to be freed.
SendBufferSize: 10
# ClientCertificate governs the file location of the client TLS certificate
# If not set, the server General.TLS.Certificate is re-used.
ClientCertificate:
# If not set, the server General.TLS.PrivateKey is re-used.
ClientPrivateKey:
# The below 4 properties should be either set together, or be unset together.
# If they are set, then the orderer node uses a separate listener for intra-cluster
# communication. If they are unset, then the general orderer listener is used.
# This is useful if you want to use a different TLS server certificates on the
# client-facing and the intra-cluster listeners.

# ListenPort defines the port on which the cluster listens to connections.
ListenPort:
# ListenAddress defines the IP on which to listen to intra-cluster communication.
ListenAddress:
# ServerCertificate defines the file location of the server TLS certificate used for intra-cluster
# communication.
ServerCertificate:
# ServerPrivateKey defines the file location of the private key of the TLS certificate.
ServerPrivateKey:
```

> As of Fabric v2.3.0, if unset, the `ClientCertificate` and `ClientPrivateKey` default to the server `General.TLS.Certificate` and `General.TLS.PrivateKey` when the orderer is not configured to use a separate cluster port.

Reviewer 4: This was ported back to v2.2 as well.  Do we need to even call out the release then?

        #  - PKCS11: a CA hardware security module crypto provider.
        Default: SW

        # SW configures the software based blockchain crypto provider.
        SW:
            # TODO: The default Hash and Security level needs refactoring to be
            # fully configurable. Changing these defaults requires coordination
            # SHA2 is hardcoded in several places, not only BCCSP
            Hash: SHA2
            Security: 256
            # Location of key store. If this is unset, a location will be
            # chosen using: 'LocalMSPDir'/keystore
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

(Optional) This section is used to configure the Blockchain crypto provider.

* **`BCCSP.Default:`** If you plan to use a Hardware Security Module (HSM), then this must be set to `PKCS11`.

```
# Settings for the PKCS#11 crypto provider (i.e. when DEFAULT: PKCS11)
        PKCS11:
            # Location of the PKCS11 module library
            Library:
            # Token Label
            Label:
            # User PIN
            Pin:
            Hash:
            Security:
            FileKeyStore:
                KeyStore:
```

> * **`BCCSP.PKCS11.*:`** Provide this set of parameters according to your HSM configuration. Refer to this [example]((../hsm.html) of an HSM configuration for more information.

Reviewer 2: Link not working.
